at Oxford University in England dr. mark
frikar is one of a team of botanists and
computer scientists studying a former
slime mold called Phi cerium poly
cephalo for years slime molds of
fascinated scientists with their ability
to navigate the quickest route through a
maze to get it some food but scientists
started to wonder if the slime mold
could do more than just perform clever
tricks here mark is recreating an
experiment he worked on with colleagues
at Tokyo University a blob of slime mold
is surrounded with a pattern of oat
flakes an irresistible treat for the
slime mold what happens next is recorded
by a time-lapse camera so the slime mold
starts as this blob in the middle and
then it's going to spread out and
colonize the whole of the dish trying to
find all of those oat flakes that we
positioned earlier on so connect each of
those food resources but some of those
links would disappear and some of them
would be strengthened what the slime
mold has done is truly remarkable the
way we set out those old flakes was not
entirely random the central blob is
supposed to represent Tokyo and if we
position all of the oat flakes on the
major cities around Tokyo so what we're
now looking at is not just the slime
mold exploring a random distribution of
oat flakes it's actually trying to map
out the region around Tokyo to see how
the slime mold would connect all of
those cities to compare against the way
humans have connected it with their rail
network
when you compare the local Tokyo rail
system and the network that the slime
molds come up with the two designs are
remarkably similar in just a few hours
the slime mold has done what skilled
engineers took years to achieve it has
found the most efficient way to link
together multiple locations every bit as
effective as the well-organized Tokyo
rail system the slime mold doesn't have
a brain or any way of calculating this
but has managed to produce a network
with very similar properties
you